So we want to open our side menu when we click that button,
now let's first of all do that with the way we already know. We need to select our button here,
so our toggle button, we can get access to it
for example with the toggle button class and add an event listener which in turn should somehow show
our mobile nav to which we can also get action through its selector here, through its class selector and then
change the display property.
Now let's quickly do that, let's add two new variables to our Javascript code.
The first one is a toggle button and here I will use document query selector as we learned it
and now here we can use the toggle button class which is added to the button as we just saw
and I'll add a second variable which is my mobile nav and these variable names
as mentioned before are always up to you. Now there, I will also use my query selector and select it by the
mobile nav CSS class which it has.
So now we can get access to these two elements,
now I just need to add event listeners. So I'll add an event listener to my toggle button by using the add event listener
method and listening to a click event and I want to execute a function here whenever this is clicked.
Now in this function, I want to change the style of my side nav,
so I will use mobile nav style display and set it to block here. Now it should actually be closed when
we click a backdrop,
so I will copy that and go to my close modal method I guess which we are triggering when we have
a click on the backdrop.
So maybe here, we actually should use another anonymous function again
and now in that function, set mobile nav style display to none
but since we also still want to close that modal, we can also execute this close modal here.
Now this will also run if the modal isn't even open but it won't hurt, the display style would have
been none anyway
in that case.
So now we got code to close the side nav when we click the backdrop and open it when we click the toggle
button. Let's save this and go back to our code and reload the page, if I now click this hamburger menu,
you see it opens
but we can't click the backdrop because it didn't know because I forgot to also set the backdrop style
to block here.
So let's add backdrop style display block in our function which runs when we click the toggle button
and now with that saved if we reload again,
now we also get a backdrop and we can now also close that side menu,
however the backdrop doesn't disappear and this is because I accidentally wrote this here, you might have
wondered what this means anyways.
We don't need it,
it should just be close modal in our backdrop event listener,
sorry about that.
So just close modal,
that's our function name,
now for a last time if we reload, this opens and this closes and our modal also still works as you
can see.
So this is now all working as it should
and we can also navigate around.
We don't have our hamburger icon
on the other pages, we'll add it there
but before we do that, let's actually change the way we open and close the menu.
This does work,
no question but actually, let me show you an alternative way of changing styles by attaching and removing
CSS classes.